# WACI Presentation Exchange


## Work Item Owners
- Orie Steele (@OR13)
- Brent Zundel (@brentzundel)
- Jace Hensley (@JaceHensley)

## Repositories
- [WACI-DIDComm](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/waci-didcomm)

## Outcome
**When your work item is successful, then what will have changed in the world? What
will we be able to do that wasn't possible do before or vice versa?**

We will have a standard protocol for requesting and submitting a presentation of
a variety of credentials formats. 

## Deliverables
- **Does your work item have any deliverables? These include code projects,
  standards-track specifications, reports, registries, summaries, blog posts,
  and anything else that is instantiable and publishable in written form to a
  broader audience.**

We are writing a standards-track specification, which will include a complete
set of test vectors covering all messages exchanged by the protocol.

- **What's the expected timeline?**

We will release v0.1 for developer use by June 1 2021, then continue working toward v1.0 with timeline TBD.

v0.1 is constrained to Verifiable Presentations, using Presentation Exchange data objects, DIDComm, using Aries Present Proof protocol messages, hopefully in alignment with the VC HTTP API.

The scope of v1.0 will be determined by participants of the drafting group.

- **Who's the audience of your deliverables?**

We are writing for developers who need to ask for and exchange claims that are
verifiable, such as Verifiable Credentials expressed in a Verifiable Presentation.

- **What are related resources or standards from DIF or adjacent
  organizations?**

JSON-LD Signatures, JWT, DIF Presentation-Exchange and Credential Manifest, DIDComm,
CCG VC HTTP API, GNAP, DPoP, OIDF, SIOP, and WACI.

## Meetings
- **Are there regular meetings? If so, when?**

Yes, Mondays at 1 PM PT/4 PM ET at [this Zoom link](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/88301532931?pwd=d0pISWZWNFozU3RkTmJxME0rd1FBZz09).

- **What are the goals of the meeting?**

To further work on the specification.

- **Do you have specific discussion topics in mind, or is it meant to move a
  deliverable forward?**

To move our deliverable forward, we will review the outstanding GitHub issues,
using [this link](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/waci-presentation-exchange/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc).

When we have specific goals such as a release target (e.g., `v0.1`) or items
labeled "High Priority", then we may add additional filters for going through
issues.

- **Where are the notes and recordings published, if any?**

The recordings are published in the #general channel on the DIF Slack. There
are no notes, however automated transcription is a possibility and actions are
mainly taken in GitHub issues.

- **Who might be interested in attending?**

Anyone interested in a protocol for using credentials.
