# Claims & Credentials WG - rolling agenda & minutes

[![hackmd-github-sync-badge](https://hackmd.io/s9IoKZMUR8ieEwyiztvJjw/badge)](https://hackmd.io/s9IoKZMUR8ieEwyiztvJjw)


[**WG projects** ](https://github.com/decentralized-identity?q=wg-cc&type=&language=) | [ DIF page ](https://identity.foundation/working-groups/claims-credentials.html) | [Mailing list and Wiki ](https://lists.identity.foundation/g/cc-wg) | [Meeting recordings](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1wgccmMvIImx30qVE9GhRKWWv3vmL2ZyUauuKx3IfRmA/edit#gid=1252135265)

_For this call, you are encouraged to turn your video on. This is a good way to build rapport given we are a large, disparate group experiencing a lot of churn._

_This document is live-edited DURING each call, and stable/authoritative copies live on our github repo under /agenda.md . 
Please note that we might not notice a pullrequest in time, but you are free to propose agenda items for future meetings via hackmd._

<details>
<summary> Meeting information </summary>

* Before your contribute - [**join DIF**](https://identity.foundation/join) and [sign the WG charter](https://bit.ly/DIF-WG-select1) (both are required!) 
* Time: biweekly on Tuesdays @ 15:00-16:00 ET
* [Calendar entry](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=NnBnMW43NmRib3YwNDI3dXA5ZW8xOHVlbjZfMjAyMDExMDNUMjAwMDAwWiBkZWNlbnRyYWxpemVkLmlkZW50aXR5QG0&tmsrc=decentralized.identity%40gmail.com&scp=ALL)
* [Zoom room](https://us02web.zoom.us/j/81498334461?pwd=MFNyL2NkU0R0dGZxalhiSVJDNTNoUT09), Meeting ID: 814 9833 4461, 
Password: 880986, 
</details>

 

#### Future topics: 

<details>
<summary> Topics for upcoming meetings</summary>

* topic 1 (to be discussed on this date) 
* topic 2 (to be discussed on this date)
* topic n. (tbd)

</details>

## Meeting Template
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. Workitem Status: [PE](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/presentation-exchange/issues) (v2.0) + [Credential Manifest](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/credential-manifest/issues) (1pm ET Thu)
4. Workitem Status: [Data Agreements](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/data-agreement/issues)
5. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking
6. Workitem Status (DORMANT): [WACI-DIDComm](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/waci-didcomm/issues)
7. Workitem Status (DORMANT): [VC-JWT & Friends](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/JWS-Test-Suite/issues)
8. Workitem Status (no regular time set yet but check Slack channel): [Schema Directory](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/schema-directory/issues)
9. Workitem Status (weekly): [Trust Establishment](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/trust-establishment/issues)
10. Workitem Status (Monthly): [JWT-VC Interoperability Profile](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/jwt-vc-presentation-profile/issues)
11. New business 

## Meeting 21 June 2022 - (1300 ET)
1. Welcome and Introductions
    - Identiverse + NFT.NYC = low DIF attendance across the board
3. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
4. Workitem Status: [PE](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/presentation-exchange/issues) (2.0) + [Credential Manifest](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/credential-manifest/issues) (1pm ET Thu)
    - Registry [issue](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/presentation-exchange/issues/340) - also example JSON Schema should include more examples
    - v2 coming soon!
6. Workitem Status: [Data Agreements](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/data-agreement/issues)
    - steady work! 
8. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking
    - status: pending
10. Workitem Status (DORMANT): [WACI-DIDComm](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/waci-didcomm/issues)
11. Workitem Status (DORMANT): [VC-JWT & Friends](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/JWS-Test-Suite/issues)
12. Workitem Status (no regular time set yet but check Slack channel): [Schema Directory](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/schema-directory/issues)
13. Workitem Status (weekly): [Trust Establishment](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/trust-establishment/issues)
    - straw man PRs incoming, still early enough to jump!
14. Workitem Status (Monthly): [JWT-VC Interoperability Profile](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/jwt-vc-presentation-profile/issues)
    - next meeting: processing 15 fresh issues against strawman --> v1.0 
15. New business 

## Meeting - 7 June 2022 - (1300 ET)
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. Decision Workitem Proposal: [Schema Directory]
    - Wait for feedback to proposal - need second owner
    - [template](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/template-for-registry-workitems/blob/main/single-file-test/spec.md) ready to go
4. Workitem: Trust Establishment specs and protocols
    - First meeting was yesterday - quick highlevel progress, the water's fine!
    - https://hackmd.io/a50I9MlkRVOQJOYgf7b3hA
5. Workitem: Presentation Exchange (& CM)
    - Extensibility
        - intent to retain (OIDC4VP and mDL interop issues) - trying to find a way to ease it into an optional feature
    - Racing towards feature freeze; issue triage proceeding at a healthy clip
6. Workitem: Data Agreements
    - No meeting
7. Workitem Status (DORMANT): WACI-DIDComm 
    - Dormant for BBS+/DIDComm
8. Workitem Status (DORMANT): VC-JWT & Friends
9. New Workitem: JWT-VC Interop Profile 1st Meeting
    - Next Meeting: Jun 15th.
10. Status Proposal: Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking
    - Waiting for Feedback from Irene
    - Got the feedback: Upload VUI code to DIF within the week. Coordinated by Paul as well.
11. Discussion Point: Soul Bound Token Whitepaper worthy of a DIF response?
    - Strawman by Martin
        - target audience: newcomers to the space, people without IAM/T&S background
        - tone: 
    - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AE4-wkSOOSX0crAdJSXI-0QikXukMFscJjd3xKae1vg/edit?usp=sharing



## Meeting - 24 May 2022 - (1300 ET)
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. Decision Workitem Proposal: [Schema Directory](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/pull/13)
- Find more contributors
- Review PR comments.
- Try to merge at next biweekly.
- Prior Art:
    - https://w3c-ccg.github.io/traceability-vocab/
    - https://github.com/decentralized-identity/template-for-registry-workitems
5. Decision Workitem Proposal: [Trust Establishment specs and protocols](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/pull/12)
- Accepted and Merged
6. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest (1pm ET Thu)
- Working on open PRs
- Feedback Mike Ebert around Presentation Exchange (will raise Issue)
8. Workitem Data Agreements
9. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking
14. Workitem Status (DORMANT): WACI-DIDComm 
16. Workitem Status (Biweekly): VC-JWT & Friends
17.


## Meeting - 10 May 2022 - (1300 ET)
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
4. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest (1pm ET Thu)
    - Call PE 2.0 feedback 
    - June 30th final date for feedback 
6. Workitem Data Agreements
    - trying to reconcile two differtn implmenrations  
    - working implmentation is driving work 
8. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking
    - To follow up with Martin 
10. Workitem Proposal: reactivate the Credential Taxonomy item under the name Schema Directory
    - Alot of interest to get this restarted 
    - Request from companies to have a resource to point to "existing" schema or a single resource for schemas 
    - Have active contributors who want to make additions 
    - Brent 
        - DIF doest have a process for registries or living documents 
        - Choice is to use what tools do exit
        - Currently needs to go through working group approved 
    - Will bring to TSC to try and define a process
    - DB will create a work item proposal PR
    - *kickoff meeting* ASAP after that 
12. Workitem Proposal: Trust Establishment specs and protocols
    - IIW session and hackmd file
    - spec to define reputation exchange/transferible trust mechanism (potentially )
    - Gabe Cohen ; Trinsic
    - Gabe Cohen will create a work item proposal PR
14. Workitem Status (DORMANT): WACI-DIDComm 
    - [PR to cut v1](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/waci-didcomm/pull/27), baybee
16. Workitem Status (Biweekly): VC-JWT & Friends
    - NEW TIME: Thursdays 2pm EST (starting in two days, with a live demo from Orie)
18. New business - Work Item Proposals
    - https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/pull/11 - LGTM/LFG
    - kick off meeting wen
19. IIW Review - Collective highlights reporting
    - Federated/SSI conflicts mostly civil (one exception in one of Tim Ruff's sessions)
    - mucho KERI (and AC/DC) - barage of new sub-specs with acronym titles for various layers and parts
    - lots of GNAP and DPOP sessions
    - Block pushing hard on DWN work
    - INDICIO machine-readable governance framework (implementation uses PE)
        - Indicio / Mike if you're reading this, plz come to a thursday PE meeting very soon!
        - [based on Oct 2021, RFC430](https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-rfcs/tree/main/concepts/0430-machine-readable-governance-frameworks)
        - https://hackmd.io/@mikekebert/HJBQH-SBc#/2
    - mDL/mDOCs poised to eat the world
        - PE could handle mDL payloads with a few tweaks! design goal for PEv3


## Meeting - 3 May 2022 - (1300 ET)
- meeting moving to TUESDAYS ()

## Meeting - 26 Apr 2022 - (1300 ET)
- cancelled for IIW

## Meeting - 11 April 2022 - (1300 ET)
1. Welcome and Introductions
3. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
4. C&C Biweekly Time Update: Reason: Chair conflicts.
 - Agreement: In two Week change to Tues 1pm ET. 3May.
6. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest (1pm ET Thu)
    - [Explicit WG Poll --> Consensus around optional Presentation Submission in PE](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/presentation-exchange/issues/323)
    - Handling of formal objection.
    - [Block Implementation of PE](https://github.com/TBD54566975/did-sdk/pull/61)
7. Workitem Data Agreements (8am ET Thu)
    - [Cross PE Issue](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/presentation-exchange/issues/307). Highlight in PE meeting on 21 April.
    - Next call on Thursday is cancelled due to Easter.
    - Interest from MyData Community
9. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking
    - No update. Waiting for Feedback and Workitem Proposal.
11. Workitem Status (DORMANT): WACI-PEX -  [notes](https://hackmd.io/6vK3iMaETna1QGipK5QvbQ)
    - No update.
13. Workitem Status (Biweekly): JWS Test Suite [notes](https://hackmd.io/WtOeBNQfRmye7FrjYjNI3g)
    - CBOR/COSE discussions adjacently discussed. (More VC spec working group)
15. [VC Protocol discussion. OpenID, CHAPI, etc.](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Mar/thread.html)



## Meeting - 28 March 2022 - (1300 ET)
1. Welcome and Introductions
    - Martin
    - Juan
    - Lance Byrd - rootsid - rootswallet
    - Liran Cohen - Independent
    - Harrison - Spokeo
3. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
4. C&C Biweekly Time Update: Reason: Chair conflicts. Change from in 4 weeks. (or 3 weeks to be the other week to SDS.)
    - Tuesdays, 1pm ET
    - Wednesday, 1pm ET (outside of SDS Implementers call)
5. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest (1pm ET Thu)
    - [Block Implementation of PE](https://github.com/TBD54566975/did-sdk/pull/61)
7. Workitem Data Agreements (8am ET Thu)
    - Update from Jan
9. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking
    - Get in Workitem Proposal to C&C
    - Find Biweekly Time.
11. Workitem Status (DORMANT): WACI-PEX -  [notes](https://hackmd.io/6vK3iMaETna1QGipK5QvbQ)
    - Maybe un-dormanted. Check out today's meetings.
13. Workitem Status (Done): JWS Test Suite [notes](https://hackmd.io/WtOeBNQfRmye7FrjYjNI3g)
    - Meeting stills taking place.
    - Gabe - Block implementation of JWT-VC
    - Input for more normative JWT Section within the VC 2.0 spec.
15. [VC Protocol discussion. OpenID, CHAPI, etc.](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-credentials/2022Mar/thread.html)
    - Call session @IIW.
    - Next Generation of OIDF Standards - WG


## Meeting - 14 March 2022 - (1300 ET)
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. DONE-ISH Workitem Status: JWS Test Suite [notes](https://hackmd.io/WtOeBNQfRmye7FrjYjNI3g)
    - no update
5. DORMANT Workitem Status: WACI-PEX -  [notes](https://hackmd.io/6vK3iMaETna1QGipK5QvbQ)
    - no update
7. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest
    - Jan raise an issue on PE & PR to add guidence to the current field & that it will be expanded, with work from data agreements WI 
    - Clarificaion on the requirments of the use of Presentation Submission as it related to Presentation Def (you need to use it) 
9. Workitem Data Agreements
    - Jan still coordinating 
    - A slot has been assigned but it hasnt been added to calandar + adding auto recording 
10. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking
    - Martin to update 
12. [If time allows] Discuss Credential Taxonomy --> Schema


## Meeting - 28 February 2022 - (1300 ET)
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. Workitem Status: JWS Test Suite [notes](https://hackmd.io/WtOeBNQfRmye7FrjYjNI3g)
4. Workitem Status: WACI-PEX - [notes](https://hackmd.io/6vK3iMaETna1QGipK5QvbQ)
    - Still on hold
6. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest
    - Review of 2.0
7. Workitem Data Agreements
    - Not officially started yet.
    - GitHub Repo (@Chris)
    - Calendar Entry for regular meetings (Thursday 14:00 - 15:00 CET)
    - 17.3. as first meeting.
    - Relation to "PE" Purpose
    - Creation of Issue in PE on extension of Purpose.
9. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking
    - Blocker around legal IPR sign-off
10. Discuss DIF F:F feedback and conversation.
    - There will be a session by session split of the recording(s).
12. Discuss Profiles (Martin)
    - Profiles becoming more and more important in the space.
    - Profile in Data Agreement !== Profile to restrict the technology stack
14. Discuss Credential Taxonomy --> Schema
15. [If time allows] IANA registration for JWAs needed for EIP712 and/or conventional eth sigs (ES256 + Keccak)?  


## Meeting - 14 February 2022 - (1300 ET)

Valentine's Day EditionðŸ’˜:
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. Interop Profile Donation Presentation
 - summary in one slide:
 - ![](https://i.imgur.com/Pmplyre.png)
4. Workitem Status: JWS Test Suite [notes](https://hackmd.io/WtOeBNQfRmye7FrjYjNI3g)
    - work has been done for a while. still meeting to discuss up and down stream issues. 
    - currently discussing VC Working group charter issues. 
        - how the non-normative examples can help implmentation
        - the next 1-3 meeting will be about vc working group charters discussions 
6. Workitem Status: WACI-PEX
    - currently taking a small break while some dependencies sort out
    - some BBS+ implmenations have surfaced issues in the core specs 
    - Finished presenation & have made progress on issuance stack 
8. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + [Schema Directory](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/schema-directory/)
9. Workitem Status: Credential Manifest + [Wallet Rendering](https://identity.foundation/wallet-rendering/)
    - Closed PRs and issues
11. Approval: Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking (first meeting Thursday)
    - Signoff process to be followed up on by Balazs
    - SF lab regular meeting are being wound down 
    - more official announcment at DIF F:F
    - Work item PR will be set up aginst the c&c repo by Irene
13. WG status on [DIF F2F](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/difcon-f2f-virtual-3-tickets-162786327287) - Group Presentation (20min)
    - Template for presentation will be sent out this week.
    - Chairs will create a slide for each work item and send it out to each work item lead 

## Meeting - 31st January 2022 - (1300 ET)
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. Workitem Status: JWS Test Suite [notes](https://hackmd.io/WtOeBNQfRmye7FrjYjNI3g)
    - [Automation of the script broke](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/JWS-Test-Suite/issues/40) upon a recent minor PR, WG is working on fixing it.
    - VC Working Group Charter <> to next steps of the JWT test suite
5. Workitem Status: WACI-PEX
    - next steps a little unclear due to some  upstream blockages
    - debate about renaming to waci-didcomm now that it includes issuance; profile versus spec? hard to point to issuance normally in any one place
        - Daniel: Bigger problem of the whole family of specs, non?
    - Will report back more clearly on end-goals/end-states
7. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest
    - PE v2: PR up for Review. Layered based rework for PE. Enables to implement a "subset" of the overall protocol.
    - CM slow. Enforce 50/50 split and have "overrun" time / second time.
    - 3.0 request being walked back (changes might not be that severe)
9. Workitem Status: [Wallet Rendering](https://identity.foundation/wallet-rendering/)
    - will be discussed in the CM half of PE meeting times
    - no updates this week. small backlog of issues to start with this thursday
11. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking
    - Follow up by Martin
13. Discuss Proposed Work Item - PresEx/WACI/CM Profile ? 
    - [Data agreement] (https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/pull/10) - Jan + Jose
        - Group: Please provide feedback to the proposal.
        - Reshare Jan Demo. (See notes for 10 dec below.)
        - First meeting (if approved) for Thursday Feb 17; will open repos in the meantime
14. [DIF F2F](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/difcon-f2f-virtual-3-tickets-162786327287) - Group Presentation (20min) - Report out.
    - 1 Slide per Workitem
        - Including New & Upcoming Workitem Proposals
        - Also include closed/"failed" workitems?
    - Propose Workshop / Demos
    - Move "dormant" Workitems into dedicated session or a workshop to recruit revivers?
    - [Proposal](https://forms.gle/boKDY113GBDMvvbW6)
    - [Session Timetable](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1iX-JgpPdJMRm_Ie62oicKgFNU21zbPAI8Xix4MuyCjE/edit#gid=1941072278) *(subject to change)*
15. DIF VC Schema Directory. 
16. Interop Profile Introduction
    - Allow the introduction/donation of a profile worked on by MS/Workday/...

## Meeting - 17th January 2022 - (1300 ET)
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. Workitem Status: JWS Test Suite [notes](https://hackmd.io/WtOeBNQfRmye7FrjYjNI3g)
    - next meeting (timing uncertain) will demo mnemonic/HD-path stuff
5. Workitem Status: WACI-PEX - 
    - blocked upstream, issuance solid
7. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest
    - David Chadwick's Simplified PE Profile
        - Layering, simple core and push some stuff into "extensions" and full-profile
    - 3.0 OFF THE TABLE
    - Too much PE and not enough CM 
8. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking
    - Meeting will [maybe] starting in Feb? ESSIF-LAB spins down in next 2 weeks
    - Martin following up 
10. Discuss Proposed Work Item - Data Agreement protocol 
    - work item proposal in google docs
    - Juan and Jan will meet before next meeting to go over work item proposal & github/IPR logistics
11. Discuss Proposed Work Item - Split CM & Wallet Rendering?
    - Jace happy to commit to more meetings
    - Wallet Rendering - separate repo/spec, should probably be a separate work item per se
12. Discuss Credential Taxonomy --> Schema 
    - outbound/upstream schemata = preferred, at least at the beginning
    - registry-style, PR in your own row

## Meeting - 3rd January 2022 - NO MEETING

## Meeting - 20th December 2021 - (1300 ET) - 
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. Workitem Status: JWS Test Suite [notes](https://hackmd.io/WtOeBNQfRmye7FrjYjNI3g)
    - core work done
    - 1/3 meeting cancelled; next meeting 1/17
4. Workitem Status: WACI-PEX - off this week, swift progress on Issuance extension
    - today's meeting cancelled
    - v0.1 has been cut and will be published when the [pr](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/waci-presentation-exchange/pull/133) is merged
5. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest
    - work continues on David Chadwick's minimalist [profile](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/presentation-exchange/discussions/269)
    - [wallet-rendering repo](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/wallet-rendering/pull/1) split out from credential manifest as distinct spec
6. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking
    - no update?
7. Workshopping New Work Item proposal for Data Agreement work (not quite quorum today)
8. No meeting 1/3

## Meeting - 10th December 2021 - ESSIF-LAB Consent Record Demo 
[Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/GI-WGx_A8tjV_Awwck5yFuB7VWjZcF9AXa0q3ouOkrIeKRyhEFvN6iKR6zcklGD1.x0c84o0oeaWFi4tV)

<detail><summary>Description:</summary>
Data Agreement demoes from NGI ESSIF-LAB sub-grantees iGrant.io, Gataca and the Human Colossus Foundation. These three demo'd implementations demonstrate how a consent notice (or "data agreement" as it was called in the ESSIF-LAB context) gets signed as a shared record between issuers/verifiers (data controllers) and holders (data subjects). The data agreement sets a clear purpose of usage, what personal data is collected, how long data can be retained and on what lawful basis it can be processed; both parties keep a record, allowing precise GDPR enforcement and transparency on all sides. 

The data agreement was originally based on the Kantara Initiative's Consent Notice, which is now being standardized as a new ISO standard 27560. All DIF members are welcome to the demo to better understand what data agreements are and how it has was implemented using VC technology by the NGI essif-lab participants.  The meeting will be recorded and archived as a meeting of the Claims & Credentials WG.
</detail>

## Minutes - 10th December 2021 - ESSIF-LAB Consent Record Demo - [Raw Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/GI-WGx_A8tjV_Awwck5yFuB7VWjZcF9AXa0q3ouOkrIeKRyhEFvN6iKR6zcklGD1.x0c84o0oeaWFi4tV) - [Youtube Recording](https://youtu.be/Mq4oXEaOTwg)
- Presentation/context
    - Data agreement automation for GDPR/DPIA purposes
    - Flow ![](https://i.imgur.com/4XG0UZN.png)
- Demo: PrivacyAnt product 
    - Travel Agent dashboard <> iGrant.io personal wallet (Aries) <> Vaxx info from 
        - vocab info anchored to CCG vacc vocab


## Meeting - 6th December 2021 - (1300 ET) - 
1. Welcome and Introductions
3. ESSIF-LAB Consent Record Demo - Friday - just waiting on final [re]-confirmation
5. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
6. Workitem Status: JWS Test Suite [notes](https://hackmd.io/WtOeBNQfRmye7FrjYjNI3g)
8. Workitem Status: WACI-PEX - off this week, swift progress on Issuance extension
10. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest
12. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking

### Minutes - 6th December 2021 - (1300 ET) - [Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/kRUsS_yY0yevGU1m1yTIjoabrazAaFpY_wvDuDvh9nxg5mP6nh4SlM8VnG7JiE95.yKFVEL3OlfIU6gP5) 
1. Welcome and Introductions
3. ESSIF-LAB Consent Record Demo - Friday - just waiting on final [re]-confirmation
5. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
6. Workitem Status: JWS Test Suite [notes](https://hackmd.io/WtOeBNQfRmye7FrjYjNI3g)
    -  today was largely about the test-by-test consequences of "instead of or in addition to" ambiguity in JWT expression of credentials as defined by the JWT section of the VC data model v1.1; see the notes for 
8. Workitem Status: WACI-PEX - off this week, swift progress on Issuance extension
    - waiting on a lot of upstream blockers
        - BBS+ blocking both presentation and issuance now
    - meeting later today if you want to contribute to a more agnostic/multi-ZKP PR?
10. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest
    - PE v2 moving forward
    - At last CM meeting, PE mostly pre-empted (kinks around OIDF usage)
12. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking
    - Waiting for sign-off on IPR from all donors still?

## Meeting - 22nd November 2021 - (1300 ET) 
1. Welcome and Introductions
3. Juan stepping up as C&C chair?
5. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
6. Workitem Status: JWS Test Suite [notes](https://hackmd.io/WtOeBNQfRmye7FrjYjNI3g)
8. Workitem Status: WACI-PEX - off this week, swift progress on Issuance extension
10. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest
12. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking

### Minutes - 22nd November 2021 - (1300 ET) [Recording]() 
1. Welcome and Introductions
    - Jan Lindquist: Consent Records <> VUI; working with DIF members iGrant.io, an ISO WG, and the TOIP consent/privacy WG to standardize on semantics of consent records; ESSIF-LAB context for all this work (Gataca and HCF); ETSI context on EU data sharing
3. Juan stepping up as C&C chair?
    - notes are 100% better with Juan here
5. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
6. Workitem Status: JWS Test Suite [notes](https://hackmd.io/WtOeBNQfRmye7FrjYjNI3g)
8. Workitem Status: WACI-PEX - off this week, swift progress on Issuance extension
    - Blocked by BBS+ AppCry (sig suite) and implementation (Mattr, danyam)
        - RDF canonicalization panicking at blank nodes; blank nodes also leaky of info, in the opinion of the JWP group at AppCry WG and others (not just number of blanks against schema, but also how unique IDs are assigned to blank nodes from their k/v names)
    - Martin: exact relationship to BBS+? Sine qua non? Brent: No, the BBS+ was always planned as the first of many ZKP profiles to be defined and targetted... other ZKPs might come soon, there are people working on the item working on/familiar with multiple ZKP systems
    - Possibility of intermediate goal (e.g. using LD Framing without BBS+)
10. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest
    - OIDC input largely incorporated on PE; they're starting on CM (pre-v1) now;
        - Martin: How much of the v2-v1 diff come from the OIDC group? Brent: I wanna say 3/4? Much of what they requested actually ended up with very few breaking/normative changes, a few MUSTs becoming SHOULDs and vice versa; also greatly informed the PE<>CM division of labor
    - PE <> WACI still being considered/discussed
    - CM still kinda taking shape as people bring their use-cases and requirements
        - Martin: e.g. how static are they? cacheable? archival? mutable/dynamic?
        - Brent: Display utility versus query-by-example-like use-cases
12. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking
    - shooting for beginning of January for work to continue here in C&C
    - exact status unknown, but waiting on 100% clean-IPR before hand-off and work continuing here

## Meeting - 8th November 2021 - (1300 ET) 
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. Wayne stepping down as C&C chair
3. Chair Nominations
4. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
5. Workitem Status: JWS Test Suite
6. Workitem Status: WACI-PEX
7. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest
8. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace
9. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking  

### Minutes - 8th November 2021 - (1300 ET) [Recording]() 

1. Welcome and Introductions
2. Wayne stepping down as C&C chair
3. Chair Nominations - Juan Caballero (Spruce)
    - barring objections or other nominations, the nomination has tentative WG consensus. reach out to chairs by 11/15 at the latest or ideally by 11/12 if you have concerns or other candidates for WG chair.
5. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
6. Workitem Status: JWS Test Suite (update from Juan)
    - good progress - spruce and msft PRing in testing artefacts and vectors for both JWS signatures and full VC-JWT
    - an upstream spec ambiguity in signature mechanics ("small s /big S" key types from the same curve) see recording for that work item or tracking issues on GH. 
        - since this is strictly upstream and beyond scope, it will just be noted in the JWS test suite docs and a tracking issue opened to monitor for upstream progress or resolution. 
        - possible DIF blog post explaining the ambiguity and suggesting possible resolutions (mandate normalization from the heavens?) forthcoming
8. Workitem Status: WACI-PEX (update from Brent)
    - draft status on the PE portion of WACI-PEx, but hit some blank-node-related roadblocks on low-level BBS+ mechanism that impeded a reference implementation being testable
        - upstream fixes and PRs: hoping to target a future iteration of the signature suite and ref implementation thereof that resolves these glitches and ambiguities
    - Shifting focus to issuance; PRs coming fast already
10. Workitem Status: PE (2.0) + Credential Manifest (update from Brent)
    - OIDF group feedback being folded into PE v2, which has entailed significant discussion and fine-tuning and implementer feedback
    - CM also receiving feedback from implementers towards v1
    - reminder: meeting time organically shifts between 75/25 and 25/75 timeshare between the two work items
12. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace (update from Martin, who recently checked in with )
    - meetings are long-since concluded
    - the WG is going to end with a blog deliverable, which may include a DIF  blog post summarizing a longer Affinidi blog post
14. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) tracking 
    - somewhat pro-forma IPR mechanics are ongoing to get clean IPR on entirity of donation (which might be the entire VUI or a subset if needed for clean IPR)
    - Work and momentum to continue and focus on integration with other DIF specs (in partic PEx) after ESSIF-LAB spins down and work begins here Jan 2022ish
15. Other topics
    - possibility of other interop profiles being donated (from, say, TIP program at TOIP, or BMWi, or...); debate over hosting them in interop WG, or whether these might require IPR for ongoing work
        - discussion ongoing at Technical Steering Committee


## Meeting - 13 Sept 2021 - (1300 ET) Recording To Follow
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. Workitem Status: JWS Test Suite
4. Workitem Status: WACI-PEX
5. Workitem Status: PE (Maintenance) + Credential Manifest
6. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace
7. Verifier Universal Interface (VUI) initiative discussion 

## Meeting - 23 August 2021 - (1300 ET) Recording To Follow
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. DIF Grant #1: [Winner Announcement Transmute Technologies](./grants/grant_1/selection.md) + New Workitem: JWS Testsuite
4. Workitem Status: WACI-PEX
5. Workitem Status: PE (Maintenance) + Credential Manifest
6. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace

## Minutes
3. DIF Grant: Orie on Holiday. Next Steps: Setup JWS Testsuite Workitem Agenda + Timeline within C&C Repo.
5a. DIF and OIDC joined PE V2-Version:
- Knocked down major issues
- Overall a v2 will try to have as little breaking changes as possible
- Timeline: First Draft Version in 2 months.
- Application within VC-HTTP-API
5b. Credential Manifest work currently downprioed in favor of PE v2. OIDC input around Credential Provider.
7. Recommended Schema Set for DIF. MS requires something around this within the next two months.
- Employment, Education, ID
- Next Steps: Open issue within C&C to outline the Workitem.
- What domain?
- What dependencies to other schema platform.
- Define extend: LD + Input Validation?
- Reach out to DIF members that have domain expertise (e.g. Workday for Education / Employment)
- Open Issue or PR to workitem folder. Loop in people there. (@Wayne)
- Also review/use existing external definitions (e.g. https://schema.org/EmployeeRole)

## Meeting - 9 August 2021 - (1300 ET) Recording To Follow
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. Workitem Status: [WACI-PEX](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/pull/5)
4. Workitem Status: PE (Maintenance) + Credential Manifest
5. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace
6. DIF Grant : [Blog post](https://blog.identity.foundation/dif-grant-1-jws-test-suite/) - Update on submissions


## Meeting - 26 July 2021 - (1300 ET) Recording To Follow
1. Welcome and Introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. Workitem Status: [WACI-PEX](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/pull/5)
4. Workitem Status: PE (Maintenance) + Credential Manifest
5. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace
6. DIF Grant #1: [Blog post](https://blog.identity.foundation/dif-grant-1-jws-test-suite/) - Discussion of scope and application process
7. [Request for clarity/bibliography](https://github.com/w3c-ccg/vc-http-api/pull/208#issuecomment-870812225) from VC-HTTP-API group at CCG - how can C&C help

## Meeting - 12 July 2021 - (1300 ET) meeting cancelled

## Meeting - 28th June 2021 - (1300 ET) [Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/ZocSskLpVF6FG4bLR18ZMIHNquKpB6iya1sYhfytoIRy-cpkKi36RCdT3aAO2ASM.wPhYbwGqy0-Cw10X)
1. Welcome and introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. Workitem Status: [WACI-PEX](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/pull/5)
4. Workitem Status: PE (Maintenance) + Credential Manifest
5. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace
6. PE issue-triage/discussion OIDF (date time) 
    - Wednesday 1pm PT/10 CET has been proposed -- see http://bit.ly/dif-calendar 
7. Outlook / Next Steps

## Meeting - 14 June 2021 - (1300 ET) [Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/wnWnzXjR5a6B4xowf4txMg4KlVGbBq9u7INDtsJk0DINa9H5gTMNlASlGv4k7FAt.e74QRP_A1_X8J0zU)
1. Welcome and introductions
2. Update C&C meeting is now 30 mins
3. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
4. Workitem Status: [WACI-PEX](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/pull/5)
5. Workitem Status: PE (Maintenance) + Credential Manifest
6. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace
7. Discussion: Covid Vaccination Pass Story (Snorre Lothar von Gohren Edwin (Diwala))
8. Outlook / Next Steps

## Meeting - 17 May 2021 - (1300 ET) [Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/XRSRv-GY2QDSwxpgTM5KnVZYOCJfGuwUBUd3jdjLxQcnQ4jYq9iKB9KgYQkDjOuD.rpIr6SZw8eKFMGou)
1. Welcome and introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
3. Workitem Status: [WACI-PEX](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/pull/5)
4. Workitem Status: PE (Maintenance) + Credential Manifest
5. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace
6. Outlook / Next Steps

## Meeting - 3 May 2021 - (1300 ET) [Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/2I0NaP6nCxs5SIk1_RgdOPnxId7M1V4vEcjo7idTOJZQtU-waGPyk469koCQlNYC.WZivBZfVnckyltXL)
1. Welcome and introductions
2. [WG Participation Tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=0)
2. New Workitem: [WACI-PEX](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/pull/5)
3. IIW32 in Review
4. Microsoft Grant Program - Cryptosuite funding
5. Workitem Status: PE (Maintenance) + Credential Manifest
6. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace
7. Outlook / Next Steps

## Meeting - 19 Apr 2021 - (1300 ET) [Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/rbhiL-mAqKbTNH3eTBtC2l23Vu2DlCE04BIVTdpWA777XjDSUtTa49gxFnRmUqN5.W8MpgMUnVWykk_Qe)
1. Welcome and introductions
2. Workitem Status: Presentation Exchange
3. Workitem Status: Credential Manifest
4. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace
5. MetaMask Credentials (Spruce)
6. IIW Discussion
7. Outlook / Next Steps


## Meeting - 22 Mar 2021 - (1300 ET) [Recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/iC5ps8zVLjjz6CqCHNtQMoPVy7NrD33Prqwc5OUihePCFgZpsY1T6Hirx1CBZR_l.r0kteeF5H98UswRm)
1. Welcome and introductions
2. Workitem Status: Presentation Exchange
- Ratification of 1.0.0: "Workgroup-approved Status"
- Submit to the Steering Committee
- Point to implementations: Aca-Py now has [PE implementation (Python)](https://github.com/hyperledger/aries-cloudagent-python/pull/1032), others...
- Add Section to point to existing implementation.
3. Workitem Status: Credential Manifest
- Still going through some scoping / requirement engineering.
- Biggest discussion: Should CM support to output multiple credentials.
- Presentation of current resolutions
4. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace
- Moving it into Spec-up format
- Filling the determined UC Categories with more content.
5. Juan, quick overview [UVI](https://gataca-io.github.io/verifier-apis/) (Essiflab)
6. Outlook / Next Steps

## Meeting - 8 Mar 2021 - (1300 ET) [recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/play/AhmXTbX_CdJF87jts4D47RMM9qCPUkXa4GysW4QB98qhgXxYV0pD_sk_sHFQ5VB-FV8nLMZYkH_Rl-8J.ES8L62znM2jf3EXc)
1. Welcome and introductions
2. Workitem Status: Presentation Exchange
- Ratification of 1.0.0
- All issues closed
- Submit to the Steering Committee (Daniel Buchner)
3. Workitem Status: Credential Manifest
- Extract Styling Spec (Daniel Buchner)
4. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace
- How will the VCM handle registration crawling (Martin)
5. LDAP VC method status 
- https://github.com/Spherity/vc-status-2021-ldap/
- https://spherity.github.io/vc-status-2021-ldap/
6. Outlook / Next Steps

## Meeting - 22 Feb 2021 - (1300 ET) [recording](https://zoom.us/rec/share/-ZUlCa3f6mJIYYGTyHCHdKQwJqPAeaa80SIaqPEPyE1_UAbfi1mhsE2L8Vyr_u77) 
1. Welcome and introductions
2. C&C WG chair nomination successful
3. Workitem Status: Presentation Exchange
4. Workitem Status: Credential Manifest
5. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace (Martin, Preliminary Results)
6. Outlook / Next Steps 

## Meeting - 9 Feb 2021 - (1500 ET) [recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/P6RSf224ZaAj8nEiE2JWNeAGCquzdlEHQKw3SpVO0KeNOBq6xyHYKdXyqzZ-S_wE.j17-kOkb4tgak51C) 

### Agenda
1. Welcome and introductions
2. C&C WG participation tracking
3. Agenda creation/review/prioritization
4. Chair Appointment for the replacement of Gabe Cohen:
- Current proposal is Daniel McGrogan (Workday)
- Introduction: Daniel 
- Feedback & Confirmation
5. Update Meeting Time Schedule: Proposal Biweekly Mo, 1300 ET
6. Workitem Status: Presentation Exchange
7. Workitem Status: Credential Manifest
8. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace (Martin)
9. Repo Introduction: [Schema Forms](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/schema-forms):
10. Outlook / Next Steps 

### Recap
3. No other agenda points
4. C&C Chair Proposal: Daniel McGrogan (Workday)
- Met some community members at RWOT in Prague
- Workday is looking for a practical and scalable solution around identifiers and VCs.
- Focus on Expressibility of Credentials and Formats that allow for a richer Identity Ecosystem.
5. Next Meeting 2/22, Mo, 1300 ET
6. From Thursday: Workgroup Approved Draft. Implementation Commitments:
- MS
- Workday
- Aries-Go
- DIDKit (Rust)
Brent has a big editorial PR left. Clarification around what the SPEC does not provide.
7. First Review of the existing Strawman Features. 
8. Several Worflows provided by Affinidi Civic and Consensys. See [VC Marketplace Repo](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/vc-marketplace/blob/main/use_cases.md)
9. Daniel present UIs that can be dynamically generated from JSON Schemas. 



## Meeting - 12 Jan 2021 - (1500 ET) [recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/FyC37745K2NO0X7hSoxSezJfgaBjELK5N1_frnjtRnSvZzIVyFkpgIFYP5_S36xB.gDiY5tOFsTWNygq9) 

## Meeting - 12 Jan 2021 - (1500 ET) [recording]() 
 
### Agenda
1. Welcome and introductions
2. C&C WG participation tracking
3. Agenda creation/review/prioritization
4. Presentation by Alexander Yenkalov (Spherity)
5. Accepted WorkItems:
    - [Credential Manifest](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/blob/main/work_items/credential_manifest.md)
    `Weekly Thu 1PM EST`
    - [VC Marketplace](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/blob/main/work_items/vc_marketplace.md)
    `Weekly Tue 8AM EST`
6. Workitem Status: Presentation Exchange
    ```
    Comments on the Draft are welcome through 03:59 UTC/GMT on 2021-01-22 (23:59 Boston time on 2021-01-22) and should be provided as issues raised on the specificationâ€™s GitHub repository.
    ```
7. Workitem Status: Credential Manifest
8. Workitem Status: VC Marketplace
9. DIF F2F - Group Presentation
    - WorkItem Presentation: PE, CM, Marketplace
    - Community Feedback
10. Outlook / Next Steps 

### Recap
- Alexander of Spherity introduces Revocation Method:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ArGkOQQUTPgdTpehbhcUU8N5O3enW81qQYwGxxaNTiI/edit

## Meeting - 15 Dez 2020 - (1500 ET) [recording]() 
 
### Agenda
1. Welcome and introductions
2. C&C WG participation tracking
3. Agenda creation/review/prioritization
4. Workitem Proposal Review:
    - [Credential Manifest](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/pull/2) (Kickoff on 12/17)
    - [VC Marketplace](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/pull/1)
5. Workitem Status: Presentation Exchange
    - Blog Article around the PE 0.1.0 Release
6. Possible Future Workitems:
    - Credential Schemas and Ontologys
    - Credential Revocation
7. Outlook / Next Steps 

### Recap
#### Status PE
- Closing last issues for an official 0.1.0 transition
- Please raise last-minute issues in person on Thursdays weekly meetings

#### Workitem Proposal Review:
1. [Credential Manifest](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/pull/2) (Kickoff on 12/17)
- Credential Manifest Specification is in unchanged "Strawman" Status since the beginning of the year. Focus has been on the Presentation Exchange workitem.
- With the release of PE 0.1.0 specification, we are "relaunching" the CM spec into official C&C workitem status
- Thursday PE Meetings will transition into regular CM Meeting Specifications
- 7-day objection period for workitem from today's meeting
2. [VC Marketplace](https://github.com/decentralized-identity/claims-credentials/pull/1)
- Foused on Use Cases (Outcome is not a specification, but User Journeys)
- Example Use Case:
    - Incentives for the Credential Ecosystem: How can a Marketplace create natural incentive layers for issuing and exchanging verifiable credentials.
    - How can Marketplace layer accelerate the interoperability between different "identity networks"
- Specification will likely generate requirements for existing specs like Presentation Exchange or Credential Manifest
- 7-day objection period for workitem from today's meeting
#### Open Discussion
- Aries RFCs and their Integration of PE and CM specifications.
- Aries-GO plans full support of BBS+ and PE and the end of Q1/2021
- Kunal: Status on Schema Work: Martin will reach out.


## Meeting - 01 Dez 2020 - (1500 ET) [recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/oYWkjaRdSHdYPBe4Fjs5fyD0PX3I2OFqVxelNw3oi9abdn6HfW8oS7ICnZWro6HO.EDdnKvrLtOhIUquF) 
 
### Agenda

1. Welcome and introductions
2. C&C WG participation tracking
3. Agenda creation/review/prioritization
4. Upcoming workitem(s) (proposals):
    - Credential Manifest
    - VC Marketplace
    - DIF-Managed Credential Ontology and Tooling
5. Workitem Status: Presentation Exchange
6. Outlook / Next Steps 

### Recap
1. Introductions
2. Update Jace around [WACI](https://github.com/hellobloom/wallet-credential-interactions/pull/5)
3. Workitems:
- Inform about VC Marketplace Workitem: Candidates:
    - In addition to existing: KILT, Civic
- Credential Ontology and Tooling: What should the output to the group be: JSON Schemas, JSON-LD Contexts, Overlab with CCG Vocubulary. Workitem + Affinidi. Getting people at the table. 
    -  Martin will setup mail.
- Recovation Workitem TBD (discuss with Gabe.)

## Meeting - 17 Nov 2020 - (1500 ET) [recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/urCKTB3BGpfZ6QgjbxUij6VFoT0oHdC1QECATuyaRDMw_ls3mmnRj4JHHWzD_qiS.b7uR8OhCuchu6f59) 
 
### Agenda

1. Welcome and introductions
2. C&C WG participation tracking
3. Agenda creation/review/prioritization
4. Bloom Presentation: [The Wallet Credential Interactions Spec Proposal](https://hellobloom.github.io/wallet-credential-interactions/) by Jace Hensley
5. Next steps: Credential Schemas (e.g. Affinidi & others)
6. MS Status Protocol Implementation (e.g. for Credential Revocation) 
7. Workitem Status: Presentation Exchange
    - Go Implementation Workday
    - JSONPath / Ontology Discussion Recap
    - Open Issues
8. Workitem Status: Credentials Manifest calls
9. Outlook / Next Steps 

### Recap
- Intros: Jace from Bloom
- [WACI Interaction Spec (WAKEE)](https://hellobloom.github.io/wallet-credential-interactions/)
- Discussion around Credential Schema and Ontology for JWT AND JSON-LD Contexts.
- Setup reusable artifacts to build ontologys, like template repositories. (e.g. base definition of spec and how to build novel ontologies from there). Example citizenship ontology. Generation as a npm package. Best practices. Reuse of existing URI.
Action: Martin Setup concrete next steps for the next C&C meeting.
- Presentation Daniel Buchner: Hash Field Status List. Privacy extensions to the bitstring recovcation list concept.
- Workitem Status for PE & CM on Thursday.

## Meeting - 03 Nov 2020 - (1500 ET) [recording](https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/3IYGkxbiCJG9acGTsoie_TQYWu8nKacNUcHEZPFx6yyMTjgp4-R_LsrE4SODrlAF.5dwcWpUCRYgI0BAs) 
 
### Agenda

1. Welcome and introductions
2. C&C WG participation tracking
3. Agenda creation/review/prioritization
4. Affinidi Core SDK and industry-specific schema presentation by @Kamal Laungani (Affinidi).
5. [All] IIW recap (in relation to C&C)
6. Workitem Status: Presentation Exchange
7. Talk about starting up Credentials Manifest calls
8. Outlook / Next Steps (edited) 

### Recap
- Introduction Kamal from Affinidi
- IPR Reminder
- New Agenda Point: Credential Manifest next steps
- Affinidi [Core SDK](https://github.com/affinityproject/affinidi-core-sdk) and [industry-specific schema](https://docs.affinidi.com/schemas/getting-started/) presentation by @Kamal Laungani (Affinidi).
- [IIW Recap]:
    - Gabe: Hosted Session on Revocation @Workday. Contribute to DIF. Link to previous presentation at DIF.
    - Stephen: Talk about future Revocation Mechansims for Aries/Indy 
    - Wayne: Presentation Exchange. Convergance of many standards with similar goals (OpenID Connect Credentials Profile: Verifiable Credential as Identity Token.). DID for generating Identity Token(?). SIOP. WebID. How to extend browser capabilities with a key-based credentialing system. (Overlap to Chapi) GNAP: "OAuth3".
    - Daniel: 2-3 new envelope formats. PE importance grows.
- Presentation Exchange Status:
    - 2 PRs: 
        - 1. Multiple Schema identifiers
        - 2. Holder Binding between credentials
    - Editoral side wrapping up
    - Test Vectors after a 1.0 Draft version
- Workitem Credential Manifest
    - Reuse existing Presentation Exchange call time and shift focus towards Credential Manifest.
    - Review Daniel Status
    - First Meeting next Thursday


## Meeting - 26 Oct 2020 - (1500 ET)
 
### Agenda

1. Welcome and introductions
2. [ID WG participation tracking](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/12hFa574v5PRrKfzIKMgDTjxuU6lvtBhrmLspfKkN4oE/edit#gid=1245330243)
3. Agenda creation/review/prioritization
4. [All] IIW recap
5. TBD
6. 

### Proposals
-proposals here-

### Attendees
-attendees here-

## Old meeting page (before October 2020) 
[Old meeting page](https://www.notion.so/dif/Claims-and-Credentials-d236ac4366d54c76ba85c2f521c003e0)
